# Chapter 7 - Routing in React

## Mike

I started this chapter with a lot of optimism. I think there's a ton to be gained from creating a commonly used feature from scratch. However, it ended up being yet another lackluster chapter. I did learn quite a bit about how routing functions, but not as much as I would have liked. I wish the author would have slowed down and gone more in-depth on the actual functionality; he mentions we aren't going to be using the `React Router` library until later chapters, but then uses several other libraries to create his router, which makes me feel like the choice to not use React Router was redundant. If you're going to avoid using libraries for educational purposes, then avoid using libraries. I found that in order to understand the examples well, I had to go look up with that `enroute` library was actually doing under the covers, and to my disappointment it's doing something so simple it fits in a single file with two functions, which is something the author easily could have recreated in a single section instead of explaining how RegEx works.

I started creating my own Router based on his ideas, but I stopped short of getting too crazy with it. I found I was struggling a lot with how the properties were being passed around from parent to child, which I would say is a bit of a failure on the part of the author. I was reading through and recreating the examples and they were still difficult to really wrap my head around, and I'm experienced with React. Certainly someone who has no idea how to use React would be (more-or-less) completely lost.

Finally, I noted **multiple** issues this chapter. Issues not only with grammar, but also with the code samples. If I have to get out a red pen to correct all the mistakes, then there's something wrong with the chapter. It makes me concerned that maybe Manning isn't the best publisher to go to if we want to learn things. While I disapprove of O'Reilly and Pearson for what they've done to the textbook industry, at least their books are highly rated. In the future, instead of searching directly on Manning for topics, I'll likely search on some book aggregation service instead, and look at ratings from other readers.
